# CASE STUDY: Bellabeat Fitness Data Analysis 
##### Author: Samarah Rizvi

##### Date: June 5, 2023

This case study follows the follwing six data analysis steps:
### 1- Ask
### 2- Prepare
### 3- Process
### 4- Analyze
### 5- Share
### 6- Act

# Background of bellabeat
Bellabeat is a high-tech company that manufactures health-focused smart products. Since it was founded in 2013, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for women. The company has 5 main products: bellabeat app, leaf(basic wellness tracker), time(wellness watch), spring(smart water bottle) and bellabeat membership. Bellabeat is a successful small company, but they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. 
## 1- Ask phase
### Business Task : We are asked to analyze Fitbit smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. The insights can help guide the marketing strategy for the company. 
Main stakeholders: Urška Sršen(cofounder and Chief Creative Officer), Sando Mur (Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder) and Bellabeat marketing analytics team.
## 2- Prepare phase 
### Dataset source
The data source used for our case study is the FitBit Fitness Tracker Data. This is a 30 participants FitBit Fitness Tracker Data avaiable from Mobius: https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/fitbit. It is an open source data.
### Does the data follow the ROCCC approach?
- Reliability and originality:
The data is from 30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data and generated by from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk.
- Comprehensive:  Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.
- Current: These datasets were generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016.
- Cited : unknown
### Data Credibility and Integrity
The sample size of the data is very small and the absence of the demographic information of the participents can make the data prone to the sampling bias which means we are unsure if the sample size is representative of the whole population as a whole. Another problem is that the dataset is not current (recorded in 2016). 

